README.md, before:

# Card Games Prototype

This repo is a prototype/warmup/prelude to a more robust card game solution. It exists to quickly familiarize myself
coding card games.

The original plan was to make this prototype, then learn about the ECS architecture, and then rebuild the app using this
architecture. However, now that
the [ECS learning has been completed](https://github.com/sawyerwatts/EntityComponentSystem), that architecture would be
comically overengineering this solution. As such, the emerging abstract core architecture would fit much better, and
here's a list of larger takeaways from this prototype to be applied to a meaningful implementation. That said, the user
interfacing code is the most awkward (possibly because I never do frontend work).

1. Pushing events for each game action seems like a good idea. That way, different players can be notified of changes
   and handle rendering of changes to their player's UI, and it'd be helpful for a card counting feature.
    - A `Players : List<Player>` mediator could be beneficial for this reason, especially because when needing to ask
      all players for card(s) in parallel.
2. When prompting for card(s), having more human-readable and computer-readable details (esp rejection details) would be
   helpful.
3. The current division between `Player` and `IPlayerInterface` is awkward since the player only knows what cards they
   have when they are prompted to play something. See the next item for more.
4. Game state needs a pass, especially in regards to visibility. In Hearts, a player can know any other player's score
   whenever, and in other games, a player can know how many cards another player has, but seeing the hand is not
   allowed. Going one step further, no players can look at the contents of taken tricks (except the last, if you're
   feeling kind).
    - Make `GameState` and `PlayerState` w/ visibility modifiers on all properties so everyone can see everything
    - Diff levels of visibility:
        - Public: total score, number of cards in a player's hand, number of tricks a player has taken, etc
        - Private (to owning player): contents of hand, card counting tracker
        - Hidden (from all players): contents of played tricks
    - Merge `IPlayerInterface` into `Player`, and inject `GameState` and this player's `PlayerState` (or index w/in
      `GameState.Players`)
    - Implement:
        - `HeartsGameState : GameState`
        - `HeartsPlayerState : PlayerState`
        - `CliPlayer : Player`
        - `AiPlayer : Player`
    - For (1), have message channels for each player that the implementations can consume as a part of rendering
      updates, like if got disconnected and needed to replay?
    - Altho a god state object could have weird mutators causing bugs. Have the game state be immutable or
      otherwise lock down mutations to specific classes? This might be too much tho
5. As a combo of previous ideas, have a `GameState` and a `ReadonlyGameState` for players (that also
   applies the appropriate data authorization filtering)?

Commit message:

add link to real repo

README.md, after:

# Card Games Prototype

This repo is a prototype/warmup/prelude to a more robust card game solution. It exists to quickly familiarize myself
coding card games. The non-prototype repo is [CoolCardGames](https://github.com/sawyerwatts/CoolCardGames).

The original plan was to make this prototype, then learn about the ECS architecture, and then rebuild the app using this
architecture. However, now that
the [ECS learning has been completed](https://github.com/sawyerwatts/EntityComponentSystem), that architecture would be
comically overengineering this solution. As such, the emerging abstract core architecture would fit much better, and
here's a list of larger takeaways from this prototype to be applied to a meaningful implementation. That said, the user
interfacing code is the most awkward (possibly because I never do frontend work).

1. Pushing events for each game action seems like a good idea. That way, different players can be notified of changes
   and handle rendering of changes to their player's UI, and it'd be helpful for a card counting feature.
    - A `Players : List<Player>` mediator could be beneficial for this reason, especially because when needing to ask
      all players for card(s) in parallel.
2. When prompting for card(s), having more human-readable and computer-readable details (esp rejection details) would be
   helpful.
3. The current division between `Player` and `IPlayerInterface` is awkward since the player only knows what cards they
   have when they are prompted to play something. See the next item for more.
4. Game state needs a pass, especially in regards to visibility. In Hearts, a player can know any other player's score
   whenever, and in other games, a player can know how many cards another player has, but seeing the hand is not
   allowed. Going one step further, no players can look at the contents of taken tricks (except the last, if you're
   feeling kind).
    - Make `GameState` and `PlayerState` w/ visibility modifiers on all properties so everyone can see everything
    - Diff levels of visibility:
        - Public: total score, number of cards in a player's hand, number of tricks a player has taken, etc
        - Private (to owning player): contents of hand, card counting tracker
        - Hidden (from all players): contents of played tricks
    - Merge `IPlayerInterface` into `Player`, and inject `GameState` and this player's `PlayerState` (or index w/in
      `GameState.Players`)
    - Implement:
        - `HeartsGameState : GameState`
        - `HeartsPlayerState : PlayerState`
        - `CliPlayer : Player`
        - `AiPlayer : Player`
    - For (1), have message channels for each player that the implementations can consume as a part of rendering
      updates, like if got disconnected and needed to replay?
    - Altho a god state object could have weird mutators causing bugs. Have the game state be immutable or
      otherwise lock down mutations to specific classes? This might be too much tho
5. As a combo of previous ideas, have a `GameState` and a `ReadonlyGameState` for players (that also
   applies the appropriate data authorization filtering)?
